---
layout: post
heading: 'MCL32 launch'
leader:
 image: http://media.chris-alexander.co.uk/pictures/mcl32/header.png
 hassmall: false
 showonpage: true
 inverted: true
categories: f1
---

When you work in F1 you're used to keeping secrets and not talking much about what you get up to at work. But last week was new car launch day, and we can tell you all about it!

If you like you can watch back the live stream, which was on YouTube, the website, and Sky Sports F1:

{% include youtube.html id="LpFjtMvIr4g" start="11669" %}

We watched it on the Boulevard in the office. Can you spot me in the picture?

{% include tweet.html user="McLaren Group" username="McLarenGroup" id="835086416841420801" date="February 24, 2017" text="The MCL32 is the product of hard work and dedication from employees across the McLaren Technology Group. We're watching it together." %}

This included Chandon :-)

In the afternoon, we got a replay of the launch in the Thought Leadership Centre:

{% include images/block.html src="http://media.chris-alexander.co.uk/pictures/mcl32/covered.jpg" %}

This included the full video and immersive experience, as well as the reveal of the car, which looks awesome in the flesh by the way:

{% include images/block.html src="http://media.chris-alexander.co.uk/pictures/mcl32/car.jpg" %}

On top of that we got to take our pictures with it, so with it unlikely I will be making my way to a test or race this year, time to get the profile picture updated!

{% include images/block.html src="http://media.chris-alexander.co.uk/pictures/mcl32/profile.jpg" %}

And this morning, the car turned its first laps at Barcelona before the pre-season testing officially starts tomorrow. Looks and sounds great!

{% include tweet.html user="McLaren" username="McLarenF1" id="835774170231353344" date="February 26, 2017" text="There she is! Proud moment as the MCL32 makes her track debut, with alo_oficial at the helm" %}